# Compiling and Debugging FFmpeg for Windows
FFmpeg is a free, open-source, cross-platform project for recording, streaming, and transcoding multimedia. It's used in many applications such as OBS Studio, Audacity, and Chromium. I have experience using it to record my desktop on the Windows operating system, and transcoding audio-video files on *nix operating systems. Recently, I discovered a bug in FFmpeg, and I wanted to contribute to the project.

## Description of the Bug
Specifically on the Windows operating system, FFmpeg supports screen recording using gdigrab. You can use the screen recorder to record individual windows, a specific monitor, or an entire multi-monitor span. When the contiguous monitor recording is turned on, the recording resolution will be incorrect if the user has multiple different monitors with different DPI-scaling turned to each monitor. DPI-scaling is a feature in Windows to fix sizing issues with high-DPI monitors. These are typically 4k monitors. On high-DPI monitors, the pixels are so small, on-screen elements need to take up more pixels to have the same visibility. 

I was able to reqroduce the bug consistently, and I needed to be able to compile and debug the code if I wanted to submit a change to FFmpeg

## Configuring FFmpeg
FFmpeg uses it's own build configuration system. 

### Cross Compiling on Ubuntu
> `git clone https://chromium.googlesource.com/webm/libvpx`

### Configuring with MSYS2-MinGW-w64
> `pacman -Syu`
>
> `pacman -Syu`
>
> `pacman -S --needed base-devel mingw-w64-x86_64-toolchain`
>
> `pacman -S mingw-w64-x86_64-libvpx`


https://packages.msys2.org/package/mingw-w64-x86_64-libvpx

https://packages.msys2.org/package/mingw-w64-x86_64-ffmpeg?repo=mingw64


ffmpeg -f gdigrab -framerate 30 -i desktop output.mkv